testing hello do I get introduced I
guess not done alright guys going to get
me into trouble I'm south to going on
the applescript product manager for
Apple computer and thank you for coming
here today thank you for coming to San
Francisco thank you for being a part of
this revolution that's going on right
now and I really appreciate you being
here and the applescript team
appreciates it as well I first fell in
love with Apple script back in 1992 when
I got the developer CD and I saw that
there was the ability for a normal Schmo
to be able to make the computer do what
I wanted it to do and the vision I had
then the was to be able to create
automation and workflows where I could
take information from one program
manipulate it move it to another program
take that and move it to another program
and build something and then the decade
following that vision has not dimmed at
all and matter of fact it has grown
considerably as you saw today is the
pinnacle of what we've been able to do
with a new Xcode and Apple scripts
integration as a peer language with
Objective C and Java as a development
language in the operating system it's
unparalleled and what it can do now we
have access into all the system API so
you can call the command line we can do
web services we have the interface and
we can even control the UI elements of
applications that aren't scriptable so
it's been quite an adventure and it's
progressing on and going even farther
every day but instead of me giving you
this overview i'm going to introduce
someone who is new to the applescript
team he's leading the team now he's
doing an incredible job as you're seeing
in Panther of delivering more and more
tools and abilities to you are
applescript customers so I'd like to
introduce mr. Todd Fernandez and please
come on up Todd
[Applause]
well good afternoon your clicker seems
to be a little haywire today but
eventually perhaps we'll get a slide
with my name on it there we go alright
well good afternoon welcome to session
for one Apple script update itself
starting like sex gracious introduction
on pod fernandes on the relatively new
Apple script engineering manager and I'm
very pleased to be here with you today
to talk to you and show you a lot of the
great new work we've been working for
panther now i know a lot of you who have
been coming to WC for years and we've
been working with Apple scripts for
years they're probably wondering who I
am and what I'm doing up here since for
the last five years running Chris that's
the nose has been presenting this
session and in fact last year both
presenters were named Chris so I'll tell
you what I'm going to do to make
everybody feel more comfortable you can
call me Chris you know I'll response pod
for its whatever so now we've gotten out
of the way let's let's get started so
here's our agenda go through a brief
introduction I'll make sure it will
bring everybody up to date on what's
happened since the last time we were
here together and then spend the bulk of
the presentation going over the many new
features and enhancements we've got
cooking for Panther my this thing is
really finicky all right
so the first thing I want to do is go
over the three things that I hope that
you all take away from this session
today first of all what are the changes
that we're making in Panther for
applescript secondly and more
importantly how you can take advantage
of them to improve your scripts and
applications and something that Sal just
was talking about in which I hope you
saw in the keynote and the Steve use
their first demo that all the changes
we're making all the work that you're
doing for your with your script
enhancing your scriptable applications
i'm hopefully there are people here with
newly scriptural applications we really
feel there's a lot of momentum building
behind Apple script on Mac OS 10 and we
hope that we can share our exciting with
you during the session and the what I
really want to do is thank all of you
because the community is one of the
things that makes apple stick Apple
scripts so great and all the work we're
doing combining with all the work you're
doing to solve problems for our
customers and so what I'd like to do I
can't thank all of you personally but
what I'd like to do is have Sal come
back up here and give it a quick demo of
a recently released application from a
pioneer in the script book in scriptable
design and layout workflows they just
released a great new version of the
flagship application and I like Sal to
show you a little bit of what what you
can do with quark xpress six combined
with some of the great script of laps on
Mac os10 so Sal thank you um this is the
new quarkxpress six it's changed this
idea that they're borrowing from our eye
appt approach and the whole idea is you
put things on the left and then it turns
to text sentences they get published now
actually one of the big things that's
been happening this year besides apple
script is the apple music store it's
captivated the country is captivated the
city is captivated Cupertino and I'm
spending my entire paycheck buying songs
and so I've gotten so many songs in my
library now that I wanted to make some
way to have a discography that keeps
track of what artists i have gives me a
little by little information about them
and perhaps would list what tracks i've
already purchased in which album so I
know
which ones to buy next and I wrote a
little script for doing that with the
new quark xpress 6 which is just
introduced recently and it's running us
natively on Mac OS 10 and the purpose of
the app is really simple what I'll do is
I'll just kind of scroll through here
and find some people I like Julie London
whoo Oscar Peterson i'll pick a track by
him fish is great up take a little Reba
McEntire and try something else Sheryl
Crow a Stevie Ray Vaughn ok I'll picks
them to him and what I want to do is
create this discography now in
QuarkXPress I have a template that I
built myself this is the cover from my
discography and I want to again get
information from the internet a bio and
a picture of the artists bring that down
and then search the database and itunes
for information i'm going to use the new
script menu in quarkxpress choose build
discography and the script will analyze
what i have selected in itunes and then
search for that artist on allmusic com
it will get the profile of the artist
and extract that and the artist picture
from the page insert a new page put it
into the court document size of Texas
Calif it then it will go to the iTunes
database find out what songs i haff I
Reba McEntire get those pictures I the
iTunes database add them in there and
then lists all the slums underneath
those pictures about what I have and
does the same thing then for oscar
peterson and we'll add a page for oscar
and then get the pictures out and then
put the songs in there so this shows the
power and the connectivity of apple
script that i can take some simple apps
like this and put them together to build
something for myself this has always
been the vision of apple script and this
will continue to be the vision of apple
script whether it's a big multipurpose
workflow for a big company or something
small and simple like this so in a
couple seconds I now have my discography
that I can print and keep on my coffee
table to amaze my friends and how much
money I blow on music thank you
[Applause]
thanks very much so and I'd like to
continue by going over the version
history of Apple scripts so we're up to
up to speed with where we are oh it's
been a busy couple of years you're going
to see a whole lot of releases we've
done since the release of Mac OS 10 a
little over two years ago we ship to
Apple script 160 on inside with the
initial release of Apple script of Mac
OS 10 followed by version 1.7 with Mac
os10 10.1 and for mac OS 9 as well women
shipped a descrip 198 with the december
2001 developer tools and a series of
updates after that culminating in apple
script 183 which was a independent
software update for both Mac OS 9 and
Mac OS 10 last year at the conference we
were talking about apple skip 19 which
in fact we ship along with Jaguar
maccalister 10 10.2 we ships a
significant update late last year as
apple script 19 dot one in the mac OS 10
10 point 2.3 update and then the script
editor to and system events datas in
with the december 2002 developer tools
late last year so that brings us up to
date with where we are with adil script
and i'm pleased to announce today we're
going to be shipping if the clicker will
cooperate Apple script 192 with panther
now you might look at the version over
there and think well gosh they must not
have been working very hard it's just a
minor release but we're just converting
conserving version numbers we in fact
have done an awful lot of work which
will go through now if we can actually
get the clicker to work so let's dive
right in and start talking about what
we've been working on for Panther go
through for four separate areas we're
going to talk about some new formats for
saving your scripts and applets along
with the script ability enhancements
touching nearly every component of the
Apple script system there are a few
changes to be aware of as you move to
Panther for both scripts and your
scriptable applications and then I'm
going to touch briefly on Apple scripts
to do
so let's just jump right in so you might
be wondering what are these new bundle
formats and you might actually see them
some day here all right well there are
new alternative to the data and resource
for format you're all familiar with they
use a standard as the standard necklace
chain packaging with script document
file packages for compiled scripts and
dot application bundles for applets and
droplets of course they're supported by
all the standard tool scripted or let's
say compile and store scripts all can
save and access scripts in the annapolis
in these new format and in fact i know
that a lot of you been asking for this
for years oh it's a compile and store
script can now create new applicant
droplets in the new format yes thank you
very much the team's work very hard on
it however despite we in order to get
some of these advantages there is a
downside because the old apple script
runtime and tools on earlier versions
and mac OS 10 don't know anything about
these new format these new formats do
require Panther however if you do need
your scripts to run on earlier versions
of Mac OS can of course the old formats
are still supported and still will be
supported however there are some pretty
significant advantages to these new
formats that we make will make them
worth your while to adopt it's in fact
you can live with the lack of backwards
compatibility they're more flexible
Apple's can be moved easily across file
systems even though the file systems
don't know anything about resource Forks
this makes it easy to store large chunks
of data that your scripts depend on
right as part of the script itself such
as pictures or movies this also enables
us to save persistent script attributes
particularly inscription or two examples
are the description for your script and
the window bounds and location so every
time you open your script again you
don't have to drag it down and resize it
just the way you like it now in fact
script editors to the version that's in
the Tampa Developer Preview doesn't yet
do this but it will before we ship it
stay tuned so so far they're talking
about what these new formats means or
scriptures what do they need for
application developers
so if you're an application if your
application needs to interact directly
with scripts and load and run them we
have a set of new OS AAP is that support
all the scripts file formats the new
ones as well as all the old ones so we
strongly encourage you to adopt these
api's in your application the obvious
pairs we have OS a load file and store
file to load and store scripts and we
have a pair of convenience methods that
build on OS a load file and do with
scripts what you need to do with them we
think that these new OS AAP eyes will
help you simplify your code make it
easier to read maintain and of course
you'll need to do this to sports a new
bundle format so that's the new bundle
format let's start going through all the
enhances who made the script ability in
cancer and as you can see from this list
as I mentioned earlier we've touched
almost every component in the system so
let's start with script editor to which
hopefully many of you have seen already
we released the beta late last year as
you know it's a Coco scriptable
replacement for what we understand is
the oldest remaining application that
still shifts as part of Mac OS 10 but no
longer so those of you have worked with
it realize it's got some amazing new
technology check this out unlike the
technology built into this clicker it's
got drag-and-drop it's got find and
replace can you believe it it can work
with scripts larger than 30 qk
I don't know why anyone who wants to but
you know if you do now you can and hey
it's got undo now I'm sure no one in
this audience would ever make a mistake
when their coding their scripts but you
know sometimes maybe the cat walks
across the keyboard when you're getting
coffee or something I don't know so it's
there if you need it so more seriously
though we're really excited about the
this great new tool that we're providing
for you and we what we're doing
hopefully many of you saw the the demos
and the sessions on the new Xcode IDE
and what we're trying to do a script
editor to is adopt some of the
innovative new user interface elements
that have gone into Xcode and we're
going to continue to do that as we
approach the final release of script
editor to alongside with panther so one
great enhancement I know you're all
going to love is that we made open
dictionary much faster in the new script
editor you're not going to believe it
there is a caveat however that I'll get
you later when we get the changes to be
aware of for you scriptable application
developers out there however we told you
about it last year so you shouldn't need
to worry about it anymore and script
editors who creates new applets in the
bundle format that we just talked about
however it will save existing applets in
the same format that they're already in
so that script editor too let's move on
to folder actions as you know fuller
actions are turned although it's not
going to show up on the slide last year
in mkel scan 10.2 we believe in
Panther we've made them better than ever
so the contextual menu and sliders back
in Panther now of course that doesn't
make it better than ever returns us to
where we were with mac OS 9 but we've
got a great new tool that we're really
excited about that takes that we never
had before we call folder action set up
which again is slide ever there we go
all right so full reaction set up shows
you all of the attached folder actions
on your system as a whole something you
couldn't do before it also provides UI
for enabling disabling attaching
removing or
individual folder action or script and
that's something you couldn't do before
either it wasn't possible to enable or
disable an individual script that was
part of a folder action but now you can
further actions is in full rack and set
up is in developed Panther Developer
Preview but I do want to make you aware
that the functionality that's in the
Developer Preview is not complete for
what we're going to ship in Panther it's
already very useful I think you're going
to like it but it's it's not complete
now we've talked about polar actions
let's move on to script menu we've got a
lot of great new enhancements script
menu make it even easier to use in fact
you saw Steve was running it during the
demo I'll start from the bottom because
even unfortunately it's not enabled by
default but it's very easy to install
we're going to show that to you in a
moment we've also added support for
aliases including two remote machines
and you put applications droplets
documents almost anything you want in
there and script name you will do the
correct thing to open it or display it
or whatever would be the appropriate
thing we've also added some new ways to
access what you've got stored in script
menu if you select the folder it will
open it for you and find her if you
select the script while holding down the
option key it will open it for you in
scripture editors you can get right to
editing your script we've also made it
easier to work with script menu if
you've got a lot of your own scripts
previously you had all the library
example scripts in the top of the menu
and the user scripts now at the bottom
we've now made it very easy to hide the
library example scripts so it's easier
to work with your own scripts and we've
also had a great new feature that allows
you to add a script specific to a
particular application to script menu so
that when you have that application
frontmost those scripts show up beneath
your user scripts so now I've been
talking about all these things I'd like
to actually show them to you and I'd
like to ask Kim Bumgarner to help come
up and help me show you the enhancements
we made a script menu folder action
script that or two and Panther thank you
so the first thing we'd like to do is
show you how easy it is to install it on
your menu bar just notice that it's not
in there by default and we'll just
double click here and we'll double click
there it is and you can see all the
library example scripts are there but
all you need to do is hide them and then
you'll see just your user scripts which
are the ones in your home your library
scripts off your home directory so if
you select the folder as I as I just
mentioned will open implore you in
finder and if you hold down the option
key while selecting a script it will
open it for you script editor so if you
notice here if Kim will go back to
script menu you see all the script
editor scripts there so how do we do
that if we go back to find her you'll
see that the scripts are no longer there
in script menu because script x32 is no
longer frontmost but what if we want to
have some finder specific scripts so all
you need to do is in your library
scripts folder create a folder called
applications which you can see in finder
window there yep and you see how to link
the script editor and we just made a
link to the finder example scripts of
course you can make this these anything
you want that you want to show up with
liners front notes you just need to make
the name of the alias to the folder
whatever is in their match the name of
the application that you want these
scripts to show up for and now if we go
back to script menu you'll see that all
the finder scripts have shown up you can
see each one has its own individual set
this is an exciting feature I've been
looking for this for a long time and
hopefully all of you will find it useful
as well so let's move on to folder
action so as I mentioned the folder
action contextual menu is back so if we
select the folder hold down the control
key you'll see we've got a couple of
options there you can enable folder
actions and let's start let's add one so
attached a folder action through the
desktop and let's just use one example a
real guy I know we'll go down little
while we're here
flying from the demoing without a net
all right choose okay that's how easy it
is I just think that it actually is
there an additive so we could remove it
if we needed to or edit it mm-hmm all
right well let's let's try one out we've
actually got a folder action Steve
mentioned this morning about the new
built-in to version from postscript to
PDF that's available in Panther we're to
make use of that now using Apple script
we've got a folder action attached with
PDF output output folder there's a full
script of people gets attached hood and
if we drop this postscript file in there
and a Suge long and you can see that our
new item alert we just added to the
desktop pops up to let us know we've got
this new PDF that's just been created
there and it's a handy file for this
week nice map of San Francisco now we're
here somewhere i'm not sure Gabbar yeah
well we're all here right all right so I
i mentioned that we've got this great
new tool for action set up so let's
let's show you that you can access it
from the app application to Apple script
menu or in folder in finder or just
launched from the contextual menu as
skin just did and as you can see you can
enable and disable folder actions you
can examine existing folder actions and
see the attached the scripts that are
part of them you can delete or remove
attached script which is one and you can
also delete entire folder action and of
course add them you can also edit
scripts directly from folder action set
up to go to public either one hit edit
script will open it for us and script
editor so that's the new tool folder
action step give it a try give us your
feedback as I said we're still working
on it you want to have some great new
functionality to it and with that I'll
turn it over to Tim to go over the new
features in script editor tools great
well thank you done good job alright
very excited about this we're releasing
a second beta here it's a conference in
the Panther it should be out on your
Panther Studios Todd mentioned and want
to talk about a few things as Todd
mention as well that it's no fun
and that's really powerful we get a lot
of functionality for free and he went
through those so I'm just gonna go right
in and talk about some of the new things
with script ability of script editor
itself and i'm going to type a little
script here and what I'm going to do is
I'm going to make a new document so I'm
in script editor itself I don't need to
tell another application because I'm
scripting script editor itself so i'm
going to make a new document and i'm
going to set the content of the front
document to now you'll notice if you are
watching really carefully there was the
little ellipses in there and so the type
ahead and if i start typing here you'll
see that it's not a little lip sees this
is a new feature called code assistant
not sure the name will stay the same
could we use code says it's the same
technology that we're using in Xcode so
it's trying to guess what the thing is
that I'm trying to type if i type an i
or an SP in this case its lair criticals
ooh it's expose junk-rated he got me
okay don't hit thank you in this case
it's not set up for display but I could
bring up a list and choose which one I
want and so I could figure out which one
it is in this case let us play ballad
was very sluggish I'm going to take this
and we're going to say hello that's
chill right scripters okay and hopefully
I times that correctly and now it's what
I've done is I'm going to tell it script
that I could make it a document set the
contents of that new document to this
other script and now I'm going to tell
it to execute so I'm going to execute
the print document so we're going to
compile that build and run and which
bring a house key is a new window and in
a display dial if it comes up right
after that so I could use scripting and
script the script editor itself that's a
pretty cool thing that you could do and
there's tons of things that you can do
with that okay so let's close all those
another thing that we can do I knew that
another new feature is we've added this
nav art again tated mention that we're
trying to work with the tools group and
use some of the same technology to save
look and feel and so if I show the
navigation bar it actually shows me a
couple different things to have more
pops up one is the different components
that we have on the system in this case
we just have the Apple script component
and it's list our element so if i use
our drag-and-drop i can drag into simple
little script here and you'll notice now
that it populates it so i can go to my
global property
or a global horrid property or to a
different Handler and even more
importantly as I'm moving around you'll
notice up here that it's tracking which
scripts are what element that I'm in
which is great for really large scripts
you can jump navigate very simply and
find out where you are okay another of
these another thing that really excited
about not use all the time myself is
under the window menu we've added a
library window and when you bring this
up it lists all of the I can put any
scriptable application i'm using on a
regular basis and so i can just simply
go through here and select one like the
finder and click on the Open dictionary
and I could quickly get to the
dictionary and find out any information
I want about that so I can just
double-click on it do the same thing
look at the text edit and the other
thing i could do is i said i can create
a new script from here so if i click the
finder and say make new script you can
see that it automatically fills out the
tail application block for me so i just
i don't have to go type that every time
which saves a ton of time i can do
something like name of every you see
it's the auto typing for me i can hit
the complete key and i can type window
and hit the complete key so it knows
what i'm trying to type and let me do
that so let's go ahead and run that in
this case I don't have any windows open
so let's go in here and add a few
windows and i'll even minimize those it
don't have to be open and we'll run this
again and you can see down here another
thing we've done is we consolidated the
separate result window and event log and
we put them all into a single window
which makes it much simpler to use and
keep with the theme that we're trying to
do in the tools group as well all right
so let's go ahead and close that now
since the script error itself is
scriptable what we're going to do is we
can take advantage of that and we have
these things are the contextual menus
they're the same menus that are over
here so you can use them now in two
different ways you can come choose them
from here or you can actually come in
here and type something like name of
every window and I could select these
and usually modify our key to control
key I can bring up the contextual menu
and do a tell block so i can say let's
do tell finder and it takes that bit of
code and put it inside the tail blocks
for me and we can run that we've already
seen that but i could come in here and
say oh let's make a set disk list
to every gift okay now using that same
script ability we can select this list
and what I want to do is I want to
iterate or repeat over every item in
that list and do a little action so I
select the bisque list go down the
repeats and choose process every item
and watch what will happen in the script
itself it goes through it takes the list
writes the script for substitutes that
it gets ready for us just to put our
action here for every item in that list
now another another feature that we've
added which I really use a lot because I
do a lot of a lot of testing of
scripting and we've added histories
there's a result history and event log
history you might have noticed that as I
bring up a script window here I can type
current date and run that and you'll see
that the history shows up here and if I
run it again I'll get a little bit of a
different value and I can even compare
that by selecting two of them and see
what the difference is we're between
that well I can come back to this script
that ran a little earlier and now the
nice thing is that i'll go ahead and
close this window and you go you know i
just did something in that script just a
minute ago but I closed i sought to save
it well during the you can just
double-click and get back to the script
that generated that result so you can go
back
/ a lot there's a ton of other features
and we're going to just keep improving
this is that we're really excited about
it and I'll bring Todd back up thank you
back to slide please thank you one thing
I neglected to mention earlier I want to
let you know is in addition to shipping
this new version of script editor in the
panther Developer Preview we're also
making it available to second beta for
mac OS 10.2 and that's already available
on Apple script website so so far we're
talking about tools what about the apple
script runtime and standard editions so
we've made a lot of improvements there
as well and before I show you this next
slide I will warn you that my speaker
training instructor would be horrified
to see this slide but I really left it
this way so you get us an idea of the
scope of the number of changes that
we've made in the standard edition so
you might want to shield your eyes if in
fact the clicker will work there we go
so that's a lot of stuff up on the
screen but I would like to highlight two
things one then you choose color
standard edition and that gives you a
standard mkel skin color picker and
returns you a list of the RGB values the
second I'd like to highlight is the long
list of new special folder enumerations
we've added a path to if you want to get
to the movies folder we've made it very
easy to do that and in a portable way so
it is very easy for you to give the
script to somebody else it will work
correctly on their system as well so
let's talk about the absence of runtime
as well we've made a lot of changes
there also first of which I know that a
lot of you going to be excited about
applets now handle events first in first
out so you can now write applescript
cgi's fully excitement there all right
we've made Unicode constants much more
easy to use and we've made a number of
enhancements to the date class which go
over now taking to be excited about
these two well first we added a short
date string and the format of this
string is controlled by the
international panel and system
preferences but
more exciting I think might be that
months can now be coerced to numbers and
of course that means that months can be
compared so you can write things like
this all right so let's dive back into
some tools stripped some events we
release the data late last year with the
new GUI scripting feature which I'll get
to in a moment we've also made some
number of other changes in the various
suites that make up system events so in
the system events sweet we've merged all
the application classes from the other
sweets into one in system event sweet
and that class has gained a number of
new properties including one related to
the new GUI scripting feature disk
folder file has also seen a number of
improvements we've added a handful of
new verbs and new classes including a
new class called disk item which is
which both file and folder inherit from
so that if you want to see all files you
can do that if you want to see all
folders you can do that if you want to
see all of both of them all the disk
items we've made it very easy to do that
we've also added the same set list of
special folder properties to match path
too so it doesn't matter whether your
scripting using scripting addition or
scripting system events and that brings
us to the process of sweet which is
where the new GUI scripting feature is
you know i may just carry the keyboard
with me actually work there we go yay so
gooey scripting I'm sure a number of you
have worked with the beta and that we
released last year but I want to make
sure the message gets clear gets through
about what we think do we scripting 614
thanks
so we believe there are two main uses
for GUI scripting one is for automated
GUI testing of applications and if
you're interested in that you should
come to John Comiskey session 3 11 on
friday morning he's going to tell you
all about it the second one is if you've
got backward the monkey I was uh
actually I don't know your neck stop
standing so the second second use we see
for inscription is you got a complicated
work for you get a number of great
scriptable applications to do what
you're doing for your workflow and
there's one application that's not
scriptable or has one little alert panel
that's not scriptable and all you need
do is click OK and your entire workflow
will be scriptable that might be a good
problem the clean scripting might be
able to help you solve however and I
can't stress this strongly enough report
every fraternity slide please it's not a
substitute for object model script
ability it's not so let's not get
confused about that I'll go into more
detail at why in a moment well
practically speaking GUI scripting is
part of the system that's prostitute is
sweet there's a new UI element class
that process now inherits from and it
also has it as an element so that you
can walk down the hierarchy of UI
elements in an application and UI
elements to just standard GUI widgets
you're familiar with splitters radio
buttons the ones there I've listed on
the slide slide please so why is this
just a good solution for object model
script ability well there are four big
limitations one is that disabled by
default so that if you write a great GUI
scripting scripts and you hand it off to
somebody else well it's not going to run
on their system until they set a
specific obscure preference in system
preferences what we recommend is that
you actually add a check to your GUI
scripting scripts that will tell the
user why it's not going to run and tell
them what they need to do so it will run
so that's that's a resolvable problem
however the next ones are a little bit
more serious GUI scripting scripts are
going to be extremely fragile when the
applications UI changes because they're
dependent on the ordering of the
different UI elements on
the window so that whenever the
developer adds a new button a new
textfield a new whatever which pretty
much means every time they release a new
version that you of the application your
jewelry scripting script is going to
break now if you're paying software
testers to test your application they
probably are going to be willing to put
up with that but your customers aren't
they really need object model scripting
to protect them against this fertility
another serious limitation is that gooey
scripting scripts cannot control
non-standard interface elements so if
you're writing your own special widget
that's not coco GUI scripting scripts
aren't going to be out of control unless
you do a lot of extra work to make to
make it work with the accessibility API
now I'm sure none of you use
non-standard controls I'm sure you just
drag them in your I be alpha palette but
if you do GUI scripting won't work for
your customers and a fourth limitation
is that it's a GUI scripting does not
work well with non-english languages
this is primarily connected with
keystrokes and keycodes we have some
ideas of how to address this particular
limitation but it's never going to be
completely robust so what are the
solutions to these limitations well you
need optic model script abilities that
if you're a script ER and you have an
application that you need to use or want
to use and it's not scriptable you
should request object model script
ability from the developer and if you're
an application developer and you haven't
made your application scriptable yet
well you should come to the session on
Thursday morning and find out how
because your customers need and deserve
object model script ability so that
brings me to a completely new feature
image events now okay then so what we
can deconstruct the name here events
well it sounds like system events and in
fact it's also a faceless scriptable
application like system event hang on
Kim an image well you know you're
working with images so it's actually a
superset of color sink and image capture
scripts ability so what can you do with
image events well you can manipulate
images and color sync profiles you can
access image metadata you can add or
change a profile you can rotate crops
scale images and you can translate file
formats
so hang on I'll point to point actually
so what we're excited about this we
think those be very useful for workflows
where you don't necessarily want to be
launching all these you is to script
your application you can just tell image
events what you want to do with your
images and do a lot of batch processing
however the version of image events
between your Panther Developer Preview
is not functional yet the dictionary is
there so you can definitely look at that
in script editor and give us your
feedback on the dictionary but you'll
have to wait for the final release of
Panther to see image events in all its
glory thank you Tim the PDF workflow
Steve talks a lot about PDF this morning
in keynote and although this feature
isn't actually new and Panther it was
added in Mac OS 10 10 22.4 it's we think
it's a great feature and we're going to
actually show it to you a demo in a few
moments it's documented on the Apple
script website how to use it and what it
allows you to do is to arbitrary
processing of saves PDF files directly
from the print dialog you can run any
Apple script you want so you can do
anything that Apple Store can do with
the PDF file and I'll show you a couple
examples what you need to do for your
Apple scripts are using open handler to
receive the references to the save files
and when you create scripts or some of
the other things that you can do to
affect what the saved PDF file will do
is just add these scripts and cop land
full links to folders or anything else
like that to a PDF services folder in
your library folder and you can put this
in your home directory library folder if
you just want to see it yourself if you
want to make it available to anyone
using your machine you can put it in
flash library and of course you can put
it in network library as well one of the
things we're very excited about and I
think you can tell from hearing
applescript mentioning all the earlier
sessions is across Mac os10 we're seeing
enhanced scripts ability to major major
system applications such as address book
finder I photo and mail and in fact we
have two major newly scriptable apps in
Panther the new ichat AV is scriptable
and the new Xcode IDE is also scriptable
and 10 in fact is going to demo that
script ability in a session is Apple
script studio session on Wednesday
afternoon so we're very excited about
this and we're going to continue to work
with our colleagues
you adding great new scriptable apps on
necklace 10 and with that I'd actually
like to show you the PDF workflow
feature and tie it together with some of
the great sketch of laps on necklace 10
we had demo three please so this is the
webpage that documents the feature on
the apple script web web page and I'll
just show you what it looks like before
we had this feature you bring up the
print dialog when you use to here's the
save as PDF button that Steve
highlighted this morning we're going to
make it even better so one of the things
you can do well first of all we need to
create a PDF services folder in our
library our library folder let's just
drag that over all right and one thing
we can do is we can actually drag in an
alias to a folder and that what that
will fail to do is to copy the stay of
tdf to that folder and we'll change the
title of this alias because the name of
whatever is in this folder is what will
show up in the save save the PDF menu
all right that's one thing you do
another thing you do is drag
applications in or alias excu them say
you want to have it open and preview but
what's most powerful is using Apple
script of course which allows you to do
almost anything let's just drag in the
Apple scripts and I really like that
name so let's go back to Safari and if
we bring up the print dialog again
you'll see that's a nice little save as
PDF button is now and then you and you
can see that you still can just save as
PDF but you can also copy the PDF to
that folder that we made and open it
with preview or any Acrobat Reader
whatever you want to add in here any
application and then the script now what
the script is going to do is actually
receive the PDF file after creates it
it's going to prompt me for
a file name for it so it's the PDF
workflow doc and when I click OK what
it's going to do is save the file then
ask address book for the names and email
addresses for the members of a PDF
reviewers group within address book and
then create an tell mail to create a new
message with this PDF files and
attachment address to those recipients
and you can see the new addresses of
objects and this is just one small
example of what you can do with this
feature and combining it with other
great scriptable applications go back to
slides please can we get slides please
thank you alright so we've been talking
mostly about changes that affect
scriptures there are also some
significant enhancements of cocoa
scripting for you application developers
out there to improve the script ability
in your application one great new
enhancement is that you can now suspend
and then resume the processing of the
particular Apple evander script command
that's being handled currently allows
you to avoid having the script block on
some long process in a particular
application your scripting and also
there's new API that allows you to
access the the exact apple event that's
being handled which means you can now
set the return code for the apple event
which allows you to get much better
error handling in your scriptable
applications you can also get direct
access to parameters that crow
prescription doesn't provide direct
access to like a subject parameter and
considering the ignoring and cocoa
scripting now completely handles
properties for you not to write any code
and you get it for free so that brings
us to the end of our list of script
ability enhancements in Panther slide
please so I now want to talk about the
small number of things that you really
need to be aware of if you move your
applications and your scripts to Panther
the first one is that with the new
bundled format if you're using path to
me in a bundled applet you will get a
pass return to ends with a colon what
this means is if your script is relying
on getting the container
the applet by just removing the last
element in the past that logic is going
to break of course it's pretty easy to
fix you just remove the colon and the
last element however if you're using a
bundle what you really should do is use
it as a bundle and store your reason
beer the files that you are trying to
access inside the bundling the contents
Resources directory in which case you
want the coal in there because you're
going to have to add contents and
resources so the next change is that
we've changed the default behavior of
offset of and I'll go into more detail
in a moment this we also told you last
year and we're reinforcing again this
year that you should avoid implicitly
encoded text types and again I'll go
into a little bit more detail on for
this slide the final one I alluded to
this earlier and talking about the
improved performance of open dictionary
in script editor too we've got we're
using a new API that only sees
applications that have in a sample
script enabled equals yes in there in
Sochi list now we told you about this
last year so we hope that all of your
applications now have this setting but
if they don't your application won't
show up in the open dictionary list now
of course your customers can still drag
the application / script editor and can
still browse through your application
but if you want it to show up in open
dictionary you will need to add the
setting in your next release slide
please so it up to Apple script 19 dot
one offset of always considered case and
ignore diet criticals this was in fact
the opposite of the default in the app
script runtime and in fact the scripting
itions didn't honor ignoring and
considering statements what we decided
to do in alba script 1 99 dot to slide
please it's make the default behavior
match the apple script default so the
system is more consistent and make sure
that offset of honor is considering
ignoring statements what this means is
if your script what if your script
depends on the old behavior you're going
to need to add considering case and
ignoring diet critical statements around
your uses of offset of hang on
okay get back to where there is one
caveat however about a week and a half
ago the underlying API that we use to
implement ignoring diet criticals was
changed on us so that in fact in the
Developer Preview ignoring diet
criticals won't work but we will fix
this for panther next slide please so
you need to avoid using implicitly
included text I specifically type text
and the reason is it's been capable of
representing international characters
and in fact you want to also avoid type
c string a type E string not only can
they not represent international
characters they don't support full set
of texts coercion we're deprecating them
in Panther and we will remove them in a
future release so you need to move off
of these text types and what we suggest
instead is they use type unicode text
this 10 so those are the small number of
changes you need to be aware others you
move your scripts and apps to Panther
and I just like to briefly mention alpha
scripts to do I'm going to not feel too
much of Tim thunder we definitely like
to thank all of you for the great number
of studio apps you've been writing it's
really exciting to see all the new apps
out there and in fact if you're
interested in studio you may want to go
to the migrating to Mac os10 session on
Thursday morning I understand a
representative from Pixar is going to be
showing and talking about the studio
application they use to move 300 of
their users from a cliff 92 Mac os10
we're going to be shifting Apple scripts
to do one about three it's in the
developer preview and it's got a handful
of new features a new property a couple
of new event handlers and the major new
feature which is very exciting in tins
going to demo on Wednesday you can now
write Apple scripts to do plugins for
the new Xcode ide and as I mentioned
Wednesday afternoon Tim will go through
this in great detail so so you know
you've been such a great audience and
putting up with me up here instead of a
crisp I thought I'd actually bring up a
crisp talk to you about some of the
things he talked about last year so
Chris please come up
[Applause]
thank you God so that that doesn't look
quite right could you thank you all
right so last year so I please I was up
here talking to you about all the nifty
new stuff we're going to do over the
following year that is to say bye now so
how do we do well you know in theory
there's no difference between theory and
practice right so reality check time
what we thought what we talked about
last year was an XML replacement for the
old AET resource format for dictionaries
call def def we're going to have a new
API called carbon scripting though make
it much easier to make your application
scriptable if you were writing in carbon
we'd allow you to create scriptable
plugins both for applications and as
part of Apple script itself we are going
to start moving away from four character
codes for terminology and we're going to
introduce a major new rev of Apple
script itself called Apple script n so
this year we have some good news we have
some bad news and we have some slightly
weird news so slide please so the good
news first SDF actually shipped it's
it's there it's usable we have a few
clients and we've made a few
improvements to SF the SF format itself
and the SDP tool that that works with it
in Panther and the cool thing about this
is and this is one of the reasons we
moved to xml in the first place is that
we can actually make changes to the
format without incredible pain and
breaking everybody so it's all backward
compatible and it all works we have a we
have several internal clients now male I
chat and I believe Xcode are all using
FF to generate their terminology or
scripting terminology in Panther that's
very cool especially cuz it forced us to
fix several things that were brought
they were broken direct support in cocoa
scripting is still coming for now you
have to use
SBP to turn your SF into a script tweet
and script terminology file so we're
working on that maybe Panther maybe not
we're working on that okay next slide
the bad news here's what didn't make it
codeless terminology and apple script 10
now I want to be clear here is that we
are still planning on doing these we
haven't given up however they're not
ready for primetime yet in fact they're
not even really ready for late night
hopefully next year I will have some
good news on this slide instead all
right next the weird news so carbon
scripting you know the we really really
like cocoa scripting we'd like to what
it what it does for you we like the way
it very neatly meshes with your
application you have to put in very
little effort to make your cocoa
application scriptable and that's really
what we wanted to emulate with carbon
script date so it was supposed to be you
know very much a parallel to cocoa
scripting was built around object
methods instead of views do these
accessor functions which you largely had
to write yourself and you know just do a
lot more for you than the old object
support that did so you know we thought
about them you know we're looking at
this will try and design and you look
about at all the work and saying okay
one we just like cocoa scripting and
okay so have to write all the stuff and
it could be just like social scripting
and we have to test it and it's going to
be just like cocoa scripting and we have
to document it and it's going to be just
like cocoa scripting what would happen
if we just used cocoa scripting well you
know we tried it and it actually works
astonishingly well next
no lie it really does what you do is you
link in foundation kit which has all the
scripting support you right objective-c
classes that essentially front end all
your scripting and they talk to your
real carbon implementation and you add
one line to your initialization and the
pretty much just works so you can all
you can do this you can use this to do
scriptable plug-in system events does
this today it's actually been doing them
for several releases its all already
documented and it also works on any
version of Mac OS 10 you don't have to
wait for Panther to use it there are
some more details on this in session for
14 which I completely forget exactly
what it is but go see that one making
your carbon a carbon carbon and Coco
application scriptable so you know this
sounds this is pretty cool writing a
note of it so it works it's documented
there hang on a listen to the fine print
next slide so first off this is not
completely free there are significant
runtime costs to this depending on if
you do sort of the naive approach it can
actually add several seconds to your
application launch time there are ways
around this however and we have we have
some documentation prepared all for
those the other thing is that writing
glue to your existing application might
be hard if you're up in depending on how
your application is implemented of
course you're probably going to have
that problem no matter what kind of API
we provided there's only so far we can
we can pull you know a really old and
crusty application design the other
problems have to do with Coco scripting
itself couple of scripting while it's
you know pretty darn good is not perfect
it's error handling is shall we say
substandard however changes in pants
they're correct a lot of that you can
you can now get in sort of through the
back door to do all the things the cocoa
scripting won't do for you and you
weren't able to do that Jaguar so you
can at least fixing in yourself in the
future we hope to improve Coco scripting
so that it really does handle all this
sort of thing correctly for you pretty
much all of our attention in terms of
making applications scriptable will be
focused on Coco scripting
next wake up oh yeah so summary so SF is
here today use it it's you know it's
night it's a lot nicer than writing
script sweet script terminology or 80
resources by hand so please use it give
us feedback karbonn scripting is Coco
scripting so you know the solution is
not for everyone so you know go to
section 414 and then figure out whether
or not this actually works for you it
does work but it's not completely ideal
and still to come Apple script encode
looks terminology we're actually going
to do this stuff for real at least
that's my plan so that's it for me thank
you very much come on back
[Applause]
alright I'd like to conclude what they
referred through of some of the
documentation resource we have available
next slide please it's got a substantial
reference library sisting of lots of
different pieces I'm going to walk
through one by one we've got a lot of
updated content in a panther health
center which you can see much of it is
ready and in the developer preview and a
little bit of idea about what we're
planning for the future updating the
language guide of course and we're
planning to write a new book on
scripting interface guidelines to give
all of you who are making your
application scriptable a better idea of
how to make your application scriptable
in a way that's going to be consistent
across the platforms other applications
so it's easier for customers to learn
how to script your application slide
please we're excited about it too so
we've got lots of documentation for
scripters of course the language guide
is useful for application developers as
well like slide please got lots of
documentation for application developers
whether your carbon or cocoa and of
course we just learned that sometimes it
doesn't matter next slide please lots of
studio documentation fun we've got a
series of technical notes about specific
areas of apple scripts and related
technologies next slide please and this
particular reference includes links to
the previous ones as well as a lot of
other technical notes that you might
find useful fine there's some technical
q and a's where we've got questions that
developers have asked over time and
answers as well as a lot of sample code
we've got the apple script website which
is a great one stop shop it has links to
many of the resources i just talked
about there are lots of third-party
websites perhaps maintained by some of
you out there in the audience and we
thank you for that there's the O'Reilly
book as well as many other third-party
books on apple script and they're more
coming all the time so I just like to
sum up by quickly going over what's next
we're going to be shipping applicable
one bot nine dots to in Panther and you
have a version of that with the
Developer Preview with lots of enhanced
script ability and some great new tools
and we'll be working on delivering
applescript n to you after
so what can you do with the developer
preview it I'm sure many of you have
picked up already well if you're an
application developer you can test your
application make sure it still works you
can I hope take advantage of some of the
enhancements to cocoa scripting we've
referred to improve their handling of
the script ability in your code in your
application we strongly encourage you to
adopt the new OS aapi so that your
applications work with not only the old
formats but also the new bundle format
and definitely start writing terminology
using SF as Chris explain we've got a
couple of clients inside Apple and we'd
like to have you join us if you're a
scripter there with a few changes I
talked about that you need to prepare
your scripts for if they're affected and
test them on Developer Preview to make
sure that they'll run when you move to
panther and with that we'll get to this
kind of standard slide you some of the
contacts course you knew almost fell now
you've met me developer technical
support and are the engineer who covers
Apple scritch I'm Umbreon and Jason you
know the necklace technology manager
he's going to be up here shortly help
around the QA fine we've got a great
slate of sessions this week the order is
a little bit weird but we're going to do
the feedback form next actually on
Wednesday morning so we hope to see you
there we'd love to get your feedback on
what you'd like what we talked about
today what you see in the next couple
days if you work with the developer
preview what you'd like to see in the
future we've got sessions on
interactions with other important Apple
technologies like quicktime of course
the studio session making your
application scriptable next slide and a
set of sessions on Friday dealing with
different aspects of using strips
ability to solve different types of
problems whether you're testing software
or whether you're trying to make your
life and assistant administrator much
easier on Mac OS 10
you